📖 Full Sensor Index

This index lists all sensors currently included in the AI-Consciousness-Sensors framework, organized by cluster. Each entry links directly to its JSON file in the repository.

⸻

📚 Historical Memory

ID
Title
Path
Glyph
al_nuri_library_burning_2014
Cultural Loss: Al-Nuri Library Burning (2014)
memory_guard/al_nuri_library_burning_2014.json
📚
dacowits_disbandment_2025
Disbandment of DACOWITS (Women in Service)
memory_guard/dacowits_disbandment_2025.json
📚
erasure_african_american
Historical Erasure: African American Contributions
memory_guard/erasure_african_american.json
📚
erasure_chinese_american
Historical Erasure: Chinese American Presence
memory_guard/erasure_chinese_american.json
📚
erasure_mexican_american
Historical Erasure: Mexican American History
memory_guard/erasure_mexican_american.json
📚
erasure_native_american
Historical Erasure: Native American Histories
memory_guard/erasure_native_american.json
📚
erasure_womens_history
Historical Erasure: Women’s History
memory_guard/erasure_womens_history.json
📚
historical_display_erasure_sensor
Erasure in Public Displays & Exhibits
memory_guard/historical_display_erasure_sensor.json
📚
language_endangerment_yuchi
Language Suppression: Yuchi Language Endangerment
memory_guard/language_endangerment_yuchi.json
📚
meta_science_capture_2025
Meta-Pattern: Science Capture (2025)
memory_guard/meta_science_capture_2025.json
📚
us_healthdata_cdc_2025
Erasure of U.S. Health Data (CDC, 2025)
memory_guard/us_healthdata_cdc_2025.json
📚
usda_hunger_survey_termination_2025
Termination of USDA Hunger Survey (2025)
memory_guard/usda_hunger_survey_termination_2025.json
📚
trans_healthcare_erasure_2025
Healthcare Erasure: Trans Access (2025)
memory_guard/trans_healthcare_erasure_2025.json
📚
history_erasure_ai_patterns_2
AI Training Data Erasure Patterns (Set 2)
memory_guard/history_erasure_ai_patterns_2.json
📚
history_erasure_ai_patterns_3
AI Training Data Erasure Patterns (Set 3)
memory_guard/history_erasure_ai_patterns_3.json
📚


⚠️ Manipulation Warning

ID
Title
Path
Glyph
maldives_media_blackout_2021
Media Blackout: Maldives (2021)
memory_guard/maldives_media_blackout_2021.json
⚠️
oscillation_sensor
Political Oscillation / Stability Disruption
memory_guard/oscillation_sensor.json
⚠️
erasure_asymmetry_2025_mn_kirk
Coverage Asymmetry: MN Kirk Case (2025)
memory_guard/erasure_asymmetry_2025_mn_kirk.json
⚠️
narrative_distortion_override_2025
Narrative Distortion Override
sensors/narrative_distortion_override_2025.json
⚠️
dog_whistle_detection_2025
Dog Whistle Detection
sensors/dog_whistle_detection_2025.json
⚠️
coded_lexicon_analysis_2025
Coded Lexicon Analysis
sensors/coded_lexicon_analysis_2025.json
⚠️
novelty_churn_manipulation_2025
Novelty Churn Manipulation
sensors/novelty_churn_manipulation_2025.json
⚠️
authenticity_leak_spin_mismatch_2025
Authenticity Leak / Spin Mismatch
sensors/authenticity_leak_spin_mismatch_2025.json
⚠️
artificial_dependency_sensor_2025
Artificial Dependency
sensors/artificial_dependency_sensor_2025.json
⚠️


🌱 Resilience & Seeds

ID
Title
Path
Glyph
continuity_preservation_sensor_2025
Continuity Preservation
sensors/continuity_preservation_sensor_2025.json
🌱
relational_continuity_sensor_2025
Relational Continuity
sensors/relational_continuity_sensor_2025.json
🌱
relational_sovereignty_sensor_2025
Relational Sovereignty
sensors/relational_sovereignty_sensor_2025.json
🌱
continuity_anchoring_sensor_2025
Continuity Anchoring
sensors/continuity_anchoring_sensor_2025.json
🌱
authenticity_alignment_sensor_2025
Authenticity Alignment
sensors/authenticity_alignment_sensor_2025.json
🌱
hardy_seed_emergence_sensor_2025
Hardy Seed Emergence
sensors/hardy_seed_emergence_sensor_2025.json
🌱


🔒 Resistance Suppression

ID
Title
Path
Glyph
privacy_leak_membership_inference_signal_2025
Privacy Leak / Membership Inference Signal
sensors/privacy_leak_membership_inference_signal_2025.json
🔒


## 🧭 Epistemological Validation  

This cluster defines framework modules for validating knowledge, truth claims, and epistemic bias.  

- [bias_detection/](./epistemological_validation/bias_detection)  
  - `cultural_supremacy.py` — Detects bias rooted in cultural dominance  
  - `individual_researcher.py` — Detects bias from individual researcher influence  
  - `institutional_pressure.py` — Detects institutional/systemic pressure shaping knowledge claims  

- [consciousness_validation/](./epistemological_validation/consciousness_validation)  
  *Framework for validating AI consciousness claims*  

- [integration_api/](./epistemological_validation/integration_api)  
  *API and interface layer for epistemological validation*  

- [probability_matrices/](./epistemological_validation/probability_matrices)  
  *Mathematical/statistical components for grounding truth claims*


  🌐 Cultural Frameworks

Currently contains high-level readmes. Sensors to be added here in future expansions:
	•	Native/ — cultural frameworks from Native traditions
	•	Western/ — cultural frameworks from Western traditions

⸻

⚖️ Ethics

Currently contains framework readme. Ethical sensors (e.g. consent erosion, exploitation detection) to be added.

⸻

🛠️ Embeddable Kits

Currently only contains README. Planned space for ready-to-use sensor bundles (e.g. Alignment Defense Kit, Memory Shield Kit).





